For some time there has been interest in the fundamental physical properties of low-dimensional
material systems. The discovery of Graphene as a stable two-dimensional form of solid carbon lead
to an exponential increase in research in two-dimensional and other reduced dimensional systems.
It is now known that there is a wide range of materials which are stable in two dimensional form.
These materials span a large configuration space of structural, mechanical, and electronic properties,
which results in the potential to create novel electronic devices from nanoscale heterostructures with
exactly tailored device properties. Understanding the material properties at the nanoscale level requires
specialized tools to probe materials with atomic precision.

Here I present the growth and analysis of a novel graphene-ruthenium system which exhibits unique polymorphism in its
surface structure, hereby referred to as polymorphic graphene. Scanning Tunneling Microscopy (STM) investigations
of the polymorphic graphene surface reveal a periodically rippled structure with a vast array of domains, each
exhibiting a unique moire period. The moire sizes found in polymorphic graphene are previously unreported in
past studies of the structure of graphene on ruthenium.

To better understand many of the structural properties of this system, characterization methods beyond
those available at the UNH surface science lab are employed. Further investigation using Low Energy
Electron Microscopy (LEEM) has been carried out at Sandia National Laboratory's Center for Integrated Nanotechnology.
To aid in analysis of the LEEM data, I have developed a software package to automate extraction of electron reflectivity
curves from real space and reciprocal space data sets.

This software has been used in the study of numerous other two-dimensional materials beyond graphene in collaboration with 
the Center for Functional Nanomaterials at Brookhaven National Laboratory, such as Molybdenum Disulfide and Black Phosphorus.
When combined with computational modeling, the analysis of electron I(V) curves presents a method to quantify structural parameters
in a material with angstrom level precision.

While many materials studied in this thesis offer unique electronic properties, my work focuses primarily on their
structural aspects, as well as the instrumentation required to characterize the structure with ultra high resolution.
